Gwenevere Abriel: Peace, peace, peace, peace pasty
Alicia Noedel: You're cutting out a little bit.
Alicia Noedel: It's my phone. Let me clear some tabs or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you do that and I'm going to keep updating a note here see
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, cool. No, we don't need to
Alicia Noedel: Optimize my data, real quick. I usually do it before I check in, but I forgot.
Alicia Noedel: Nope. We're good.
Alicia Noedel: Okay.
Alicia Noedel: Are you today.
Alicia Noedel: Not bad. That's good.
Gwenevere Abriel: You feel special and it and really acknowledged on on Sunday on Mother's Day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay, good.
Alicia Noedel: Good, good. I woke up to breakfast in bed at about 10 o'clock.
Alicia Noedel: Okay to sleep in.
Alicia Noedel: Weeks.
Gwenevere Abriel: And Joaquin really really understands the importance of motherhood and how important this is to you.
Alicia Noedel: Oh yeah, I was really, really, really sweet.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now I'm remembering
Gwenevere Abriel: Something you had mentioned in group. I don't know if that's still sort of present with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or if anything else is is kind of coming up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there anything you wanted to share to sort of continue that conversation from group.
Alicia Noedel: Which which one
Alicia Noedel: What, what were we speaking about
Gwenevere Abriel: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: There's nothing pressing. In other words, it's not still on your mind right now. It sounds like since it's not remembered, it's probably not pressing
Alicia Noedel: Right now I'm you know I just woke up, I can't really think about
Alicia Noedel: Group last week.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'll go take a look. I just signed that think this morning. So it's kind of fresh
Gwenevere Abriel: This is what you mentioned
Gwenevere Abriel: I think that the topic had been on sort of radical acceptance.
Alicia Noedel: And inviting. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Clients to look at where the most resistance, where the know sort of popped up first and turning it into sort of this internal yes this is happening, not necessarily that you're going to
Gwenevere Abriel: subject yourself to pain, suffering of it, but rather, this is happening, sort of acknowledging this happening, and something you mentioned was
Gwenevere Abriel: I realized how much distress. I have caused myself over the years. I could change the outcome in certain situations, but I am quick to jump into something and be defensive
Alicia Noedel: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, that means
Alicia Noedel: I was speaking from my times with my ex boyfriend who is really abusive and how I could have
Alicia Noedel: Sometimes, think about. Like if I made that Situation Escalate or if I would have done things differently if the outcome would have been the same, or
Alicia Noedel: I think about, like, why did I leave sooner.
Alicia Noedel: And you know I caused myself, you know, years of distress longer than I needed to. If I would have just took the red flags and, you know, ran with them and left.
Alicia Noedel: So, you know, things like that. Like I i I'm one of those people that like when I am in an argument or I'm mad I react with pure emotion and little thought
Alicia Noedel: And that has gotten me into a lot of
Gwenevere Abriel: Which emotion is that
Alicia Noedel: I mean, it depends on the situation, like
Alicia Noedel: Anger. I'm just complete turmoil, you know, being very emotional very sad. I'm making things affect me more than it needs to
Alicia Noedel: So like taking something that I could have you know really seen the situation and just being completely destroyed about it.
Alicia Noedel: Or
Alicia Noedel: The reactions I give I sometimes don't think about my
Alicia Noedel: actions and reactions, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: After
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, let me just say this notion of radical acceptance is is not a small feat, and
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, it's one of those difficult skills.
Alicia Noedel: It's like rewiring your brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it is. It's, it's a tough one. It's worth it. But it's hard. It's hard. A to remember. So let's just check in on remembering
Gwenevere Abriel: So notice how wasn't readily available this morning, not because of the deficit with you, but that just some checking in to say, did it linger. The next day after group wasn't there. Did you try it on. Did you give it a fair shake or was it pretty quickly sort of forgotten.
Alicia Noedel: I mean, I wish I would have
Alicia Noedel: I haven't had any situations where it's, you know, really important that I, you know, take a step back and decide what I'm going to do, because that might change the outcome of the situation because think nothing like that has really happened to me lately. Since group, but
Alicia Noedel: I thought about it. All that day. I did. I'm about my life and I actually started wondering whether or not the way that I
Alicia Noedel: Interact with people and the way I react to situations, whether they be, you know, really like scary situations or, you know, like arguing
Alicia Noedel: I feel like maybe, you know, watching that with my parents for years, the way they react to situations and how unhealthy. It was that, you know, you learn what you see
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's investigate. Just a little further whether let's just think about how many things you had to solve. Now maybe you're used to doing them. They don't take much effort because
Gwenevere Abriel: You've solved this similar problem before babies crying. Well, I know I get up and I rule out wet diaper. Is there a burp. Is there any rule certain things out, you just start problem solving.
Gwenevere Abriel: But remember radical acceptance is not for
Gwenevere Abriel: No planetary misalignment it's not this massive thing. It's not always someone's threatening physical harm someone's threatening your psychological well being. They're also in these small little inconveniences and insults.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're small, they can happen really little, too. So now that that's reminded go back a little bit over the week and see if you did indeed practice radical acceptance, where you said, oh, this is what is happening. I don't like it but there it is.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, I guess I did.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where was it
Alicia Noedel: Um, yeah, day before yesterday, um, my mom's husband's sister and her husband came over to fix our door doors been broken for a while.
Alicia Noedel: With, like a two foot hole in it from my dog chewing through the door.
Alicia Noedel: And so they were replacing the door and my mom was just going to get someone professional to do it. But this guy insisted he knew what he was doing.
Alicia Noedel: And they were here from, like, eight o'clock in the morning to, like, eight o'clock and I and through the whole thing my dog was outside and she broke my new garden, the border.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, she completely tore apart all the boards and everything. And I was going outside because we went to go visit his dad for like the first time in months working on that.
Alicia Noedel: And it was saying bye to my mom and she was just very like upset and I know she wasn't upset at me, but she was like very short.
Alicia Noedel: And right away. I started saying, Oh my God, it's my fault, you know, what do I have to do to fix this and start you know freaking out because that's just
Alicia Noedel: How I've thought about things for a long time. And instead of starting to argue with her and being like, Well, what did I do wrong. I was like, all right. Oh, I love you mom, I hope you feel better. I'll see you later.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, I didn't. And usually that situation, I would be like, What's wrong with you. Why are you mad at me. What did I do
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay that's big.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm glad you remember that so that what that took was consciousness that literally took you
Gwenevere Abriel: I would say
Gwenevere Abriel: It's called meta cognition, where we're thinking about our thinking.
Gwenevere Abriel: You took a second at fractions of a second, and maybe you even caught that first one it's my fault, you default to something I did wrong, but it sounds like you caught it quick enough and what you didn't do. Was roll with that.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't use anger, which is a defensive posture. He didn't cry and get small you didn't puff up overly big or play smaller than who you are, you just
Gwenevere Abriel: Accepted things the way they are you decided now this is all my language. I don't know what was going on your head, I'll learn more. But for some people but I invite them to do is not to interpret people's behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: In other words, person to be snappy snorts right or snarky knows, typically what we do is we interpret it, and we go oh, this is my fault. I've got to fix it. I can't possibly have this this mother upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: might lead to an insider threat threat threat threat threat, but if you don't interpret it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you let her handler own emotion and you get to say, Bobby, Mom. See you tomorrow. Hey, thanks for you guys coming over and putting all this effort.
Alicia Noedel: I mean, it's something that I would like to, you know, really, really like genuinely practice on
Alicia Noedel: Because it's one of the things that causes me when I can think about right now problems that I have with the way that I think
Alicia Noedel: That's one of them is thinking that everyone's upset with me when a reading when no one when someone's not in link.
Alicia Noedel: You know the best mood or or overly happy. I think that it's my fault. And they're upset with me and what can I do to fix it or I'm going to argue with them because I know I didn't do anything.
Alicia Noedel: And why are they acting like this, you know, and I don't want to think like that anymore because it really does cause me a lot of turmoil it bugs me. It hurts my feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay so prop me up somewhere. The lady. So you're not having to hold me up. Take your time, no rush.
Alicia Noedel: Or wait, let's see if I can get it right here. Do you have to see like last time my shoulders are just like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's good. Yeah, that's good. Yeah. Okay, well, that's great. Okay, so there's
Gwenevere Abriel: What I'm hearing you say is we touched on something that probably presents itself quite a bit.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Interpreting
Gwenevere Abriel: Aspect, other than happy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whenever we see someone's aspect that's is and face and subtle facial muscles right or body posture, whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: We perceived threat. So when you see it, you tend to sounds like you default to vote.
Gwenevere Abriel: You quickly scan. Is there anything I've recently done as in last 10 seconds or whatever to upset this person you run it through. If you can't think of a really clear certainty.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you question yourself when you do think I'm clear certainty. You're pissed and you're going to defend your position.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or maybe you don't want to feel guilty. And so then you argue why should I have to and but so you use anger to stay sort of engaged and defend defend itself and you don't like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's time consuming. It takes up a lot of time and can suck a whole day and just get your mind, that's all you think about right. What I do, which you do this, Socks has always been like that's always going to be like that it can really
Gwenevere Abriel: kind of bring the whole day down the drain. Hmm.
Alicia Noedel: Definitely, even after it's over. Like, it's still
Alicia Noedel: stays with me.
Alicia Noedel: And it bugs me because I'm like, trying to figure out whether or not
Alicia Noedel: I'm overreacting, or they're really being, you know, kind of snippy with me right not everyone's going to be in the best mood, all the time, understand that. But I like I feel like I want everyone to be happy and I cannot control other people's emotions.
Alicia Noedel: I know, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's right there. Then you already know. So, intellectually, you can say that, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: I can't control other people and I want them to always be happy around me.
Alicia Noedel: That's unfair, honestly.
Alicia Noedel: About it.
Alicia Noedel: That's really unfair of me and very selfish of me.
Alicia Noedel: To was you know I you know I get upset if someone's not being sympathetic to, you know, me not feeling happy or whatever, you know that's not
Gwenevere Abriel: Good. Let's just stay right there. So notice that you picked up on that. So it's almost like I think you picked up on like it's almost a demand like you have to be happy around me. In order for me to feel good and you just caught you live without.
Alicia Noedel: Cell never thought about it like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it's weird. But you did that work. I didn't analyze it, you came up with that. And it's almost like I've been demanding these people outside of me to present in this way that I feel better.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like right so I need them to reflect back happiness around me so that I feel good about myself and I'm okay. I'm not meaning to stress.
Gwenevere Abriel: And and almost you get mad at if it's not there. Like, why are you not happy. Show show happy. I didn't do anything wrong. What's the deal. What's the problem and then you flipped around and you had empathy for hey sometimes
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just, I'm just in a funk ain't got nothing to do with nobody. I'm just funky.
Alicia Noedel: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just, you know, I might say, I'm just bad company as a you know on hang out with me. I'm on the back.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we don't want our loved ones to think it's their fault.
Alicia Noedel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so you caught that you flip the story and you were able to feel what that would be like to be around your demand on them that they'd be happy for you felt it for a second. You did that on your own.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, I never thought about it that way ever. And that kind of makes me you know reevaluate that all of everything, all of the situations.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, we're right in there right in this word this choice of words. The, the notion of oscillation, we might say oscillation is this, it's just
Gwenevere Abriel: Moving back and forth is an exciting one because it's in motion, and it is interpersonal and that's kind of the way we're word so digging that the only
Gwenevere Abriel: Thing I kind of get concerned about is this the landing pad of selfish. It doesn't if that's really true. Is it really true that you are selfish or could we label that something else instead of selfish that awareness, you just had could be label it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because remember, you don't do things for nothing you do things to adapt, you have developed what you do over many years.
Gwenevere Abriel: So wonder if we could change that wording, a little bit.
Alicia Noedel: I think that, you know, one of the things that I think about is
Alicia Noedel: Like, is this going to start something bigger than it needs to be. Is there going to be
Alicia Noedel: Is this person having this attitude or being upset the way they are going to start a violent situation around my child.
Alicia Noedel: With
Alicia Noedel: You know, my mom and her husband, or you know me and walking, even though I know that these people, you know, do not have an abusive relationship with each other.
Alicia Noedel: It's so, so much from thinking back to my parents, you know, having the smallest argument and it blowing up into the biggest things of, you know, fighting fist fighting in the kitchen, throwing things at each other, tripping each other, you know, crazy stuff.
Alicia Noedel: My mom dislocated or hip because my dad tripped her
Alicia Noedel: And she fell on our heart tile floor, and then he threw a TV at her because she didn't want anything from McDonalds. You know, it's just a little example of how you know I feel like I'm, you know, it scares me. Pretty much. So I'm trying to like
Gwenevere Abriel: That's not you being selfish. Is it
Alicia Noedel: I mean, I still think that it's kind of, you know, selfish for me to, you know, try and cut people's emotions.
Alicia Noedel: Short
Gwenevere Abriel: But Elisa listen to your own
Alicia Noedel: Fear is real.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, write
Gwenevere Abriel: Your own stories. You just, you just told stories that little girl. Is there any possible way. We could label her and selfish. The fact that you have developed
Gwenevere Abriel: A protective mechanism of predicting into the future, trying to keep yourself, your psyche psyche. And now, of course, your little one safe house. That's a fish. Right. How can we even
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Alicia Noedel: It's not the feelings that I have aren't. But the way that I
Alicia Noedel: That I execute it is
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to keep working at that word because I still disagree.
Gwenevere Abriel: It does more damage that's why this word selfish. It cuts you off. That's really the cut off as if you no longer have a right to the last collation you see what it does is to static
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes I feel my own feelings. Sometimes I oscillate to come out and I feel other people's feelings and then I come back and I go out that allows me to stay connected with people.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not going to only be you worrying about someone else or only worrying about you, it will stay in motion back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. So let's just for now. If you absolutely are so in love with selfish. You can have it back the end of the day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's play with other words. So this little girl who had to adapt to that kind of violence.
Gwenevere Abriel: And develop a brain right which the precursors to that violence were this face this tone this body movement. You understand me do that again. That little girl that you were and still have a little bit left in your right, it's still kind of that lived trauma.
Gwenevere Abriel: You learn the precursors to violence.
Gwenevere Abriel: A way of looking way of not looking
Gwenevere Abriel: A certain speed at which motion happens between a hand and arm a leg a response, a type of phrase a pitch and tone of volume of voice, you know, the precursors of that virus and you know it unconsciously.
Gwenevere Abriel: Very well. Yes, you do. Now what do we call that that you know that. Is that selfish.
Alicia Noedel: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: What is that
Alicia Noedel: Explain.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you want your daughter to know how to
Know,
Alicia Noedel: I would never want her to go through any kind of trauma. It's trauma. That's what it is. Honestly,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's the event. And so what you're doing is you're you're trying to
Alicia Noedel: Create a coping mechanism.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is definitely a coping mechanism and you're trying to create you're trying to get ahead and mitigate danger prevent dangerous trying to create safety. It's a coping mechanism so that you can be safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: And your baby can be saved. On what planet. Is that selfish.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so I really fought hard there for that because that will write that, that that's kind of a toxic word, especially in psychotherapy. It's like, well,
Gwenevere Abriel: What
Gwenevere Abriel: Know period adaptive smart brain smart girl intelligent woman and so
Gwenevere Abriel: Self preserving coping skill adaptive creating safety.
Gwenevere Abriel: So now that we have a new a new word. What's the word. We're going to use instead of selfish. What do you want to use because we're going to go back to this interaction with mom here in a second. So what do we call that instead of selfish.
Gwenevere Abriel: Coping that which we're going to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Okay. So now we go back and we say, ah, at least. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You were coping.
Gwenevere Abriel: With
Gwenevere Abriel: Terrain that looked very similar to an old map Netflix a danger.
Alicia Noedel: It wasn't just you know her, and my dad either me and her had a few instances as
Alicia Noedel: Probably like preteen teenager years that were very scary and so she's one of the people that I do it the most with
Alicia Noedel: And she you know like I told you she has bipolar manic depressive she's up and down some days.
Alicia Noedel: So, you know, if I can figure out how to, you know, deal with it.
Alicia Noedel: It would make things a lot easier on me.
Alicia Noedel: A deal with so many things throughout the day. No, I'm running on like like to, like, three, four hours of sleep, you know, my, my daughter's in there crying and teasing right now I you know I deal with a lot of stuff through day
Alicia Noedel: You know, if I could not deal with that it wouldn't be thing so much easier for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's let's stay right there. Notice, you're calling it we're calling it coping.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you said you don't want to deal
Gwenevere Abriel: But
Gwenevere Abriel: I know you still want to stay connected to mom this relationship you have now with her means a lot to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you want to stay communicating with her. Is it that you want to cope differently when you are around
Gwenevere Abriel: The precursors that used to lead to aggression. So let me say that again. Do you want to feel differently when you unconsciously sometimes consciously right recognize. Oh my goodness, this looks familiar. This could lead to aggression. Do you want to feel differently around her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. Would that equal sign. I'm dealing differently that being equal to dealing differently if you ended up feeling differently. I think you did. It did it once. Anyway, which is by law.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, how long did it linger. Let me see how true that is did you continue to ruminate over it and question yourself for hours.
Alicia Noedel: It bugged me I'm not my decision that I made. But the way that she acted
Gwenevere Abriel: What tell me how she again just
Gwenevere Abriel: described what her face, what was going on.
Alicia Noedel: I walked outside and I had the baby.
Alicia Noedel: In her carrier and I was going to put her in the car and
Alicia Noedel: I said bye mommy and she was in the garden. So she was about, you know, 10 feet away, and she was trying to fix the garden for me okay and
Alicia Noedel: She was all she was just like by
Alicia Noedel: And it was always like, are you going to come kiss the baby before I go gonna come say hi to the baby. And she was like, well, if you give me a second to get over there. I'm going over there right now. Give me. Second, but like, she said it, you know, with an attitude and then
Alicia Noedel: She brought me over to the garden and
Alicia Noedel: She's she told me that the garden was a really big thing to take on and that
Gwenevere Abriel: Wait for you for her.
Gwenevere Abriel: She said, this is a big thing for you to take on
Alicia Noedel: It. That is a big responsibility and it's a lot of work and that she doesn't want or I'm trying to figure out how she said it. She was like,
Alicia Noedel: You know, you're going to this is all just a big waste of money if it's if it doesn't turn out. If we don't get at least 70 to $90 worth of vegetables because your dog ruined it.
Alicia Noedel: So I mean like it wasn't just like, oh, you know,
Alicia Noedel: Like
Alicia Noedel: passive aggressive like hi by like she would, you know, being really like it felt like she was trying to argue with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So can we just stay there without that that sequence is is is just jam packed with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: is jam packed so right what you just said to me is when it wasn't just a fight.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was jam packed with what you called she's trying to argue. Now, I would say I have more words to describe the phenomenon of what she was doing
Gwenevere Abriel: And remembering that the goal is for you to feel what around we can come up with lots of different words to describe her behavior, but ultimately you want to feel what around this relatively predictable behavior of mommy's. What do you want to feel
Alicia Noedel: Able to let it go.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's, yeah, it was there. So notice it able to let it go. It's not an emotion. So that's a, that's a phenomenon.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you don't let it go, and it's there and you're holding on to it was the emotion.
Alicia Noedel: Of upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see if we can get closer to a core emotion.
Gwenevere Abriel: Angry scared disgusted surprised surprised.
Alicia Noedel: I'm
Alicia Noedel: Hurt sadness.
Alicia Noedel: The tad bit of it not like a lot of anger. But, you know, little annoyed. I guess I'd say
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we're going to, let's go with sad and annoyed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because annoyed is right. It's the sort of a dial down anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So when you don't let it go.
Gwenevere Abriel: You feel sad and annoyed.
Alicia Noedel: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you want to, what do you want to feel
Alicia Noedel: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: She's gonna keep doing her thing. So in essence of this behavior and it's men, it's going to come at you with many, many, many, many different forms. How do you want to feel inside your body.
Alicia Noedel: How do you want to feel anything.
Alicia Noedel: Because I, you know, I, I've even tried taking a sympathetic approach and it feels like I'm you know i don't get anything in return. I mean, so I really just don't wanna. I don't want it to affect me at all. I really don't. I want to be able to just let it roll off in the back.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so a little thing about humans.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's unlikely to happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm sorry.
Alicia Noedel: It's true. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean a drug does that, right, it can make you a zombie. That's probably why it was so appealing and then wait. However,
Gwenevere Abriel: Part of what makes you so incredible. Right. Is this disability to feel deeply and when you feel deeply it informs Oh boy, you really care about this.
Gwenevere Abriel: It can guide you and tell you what's important to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's not look at it from such a I don't, I don't want to. I don't want to have any of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm assuming this don't want to feel sad and annoyed.
Gwenevere Abriel: And this idea that there might be notice she just said my tried sympathy and you didn't get the outcome you wanted
Gwenevere Abriel: What if I said what if you ended up feeling proud confident strong, empowered wise.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if you like those know those words just came up to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if that was an alternative to being around and being in you right being you around.
Gwenevere Abriel: The label whatever her behavior is. But did you get to feel grounded at peace, confident, proud.
Gwenevere Abriel: Intelligent
Gwenevere Abriel: Possibility. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: I never thought that was an option.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, absolutely. I think it really is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because what you picked up on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Unconsciously and it knew what to do, which was adaptive and new to cope. It knew what to do. But those are the things of
Gwenevere Abriel: The three and four and five and six year old. Those are the solutions of a little girl you're brilliant and you can make them work for the rest of your life. Plenty of people do, but they have a lot of tumult
Gwenevere Abriel: Because there's such intense emotional experience. But what you can do.
Alicia Noedel: Is
Gwenevere Abriel: Honor that that this, this is coping of a little girl. And so we're just going to say, well,
Gwenevere Abriel: Isn't over something new. You're going to learn something new.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you have consciousness and then you have choice.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you did all of that you have survived all effect.
Gwenevere Abriel: And no one taught you how to do it. You did that all by yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's amazing.
Alicia Noedel: He just I
Alicia Noedel: I
Alicia Noedel: I've let it affect me for so long, so long. My mother's one of those people that like her emotion like her. She can be the sweetest sweetest person.
Alicia Noedel: And then she can be so cold and you know she has a she's not like like the way she was when I was a kid, by far, but
Alicia Noedel: She's I still see like little peaks of like when she gets annoyed and you know she, I want to talk things out.
Alicia Noedel: I like to, you know, communicate, I like to, you know, solve the issue at hand. And I know that I can't come at her with argument and miss. Because I know that that's not going to get anywhere because, you know, no matter how loud I can yell, she can mile yell louder as you will not listen
Alicia Noedel: You know, I don't go that route because my, you know, even though I do like to be, you know, like, very
Alicia Noedel: Responsive to the situation with whatever emotion and feeling at the time I take a different approach with her because I know that that's not going to get anywhere.
Gwenevere Abriel: So certainly doesn't work either.
Alicia Noedel: But I mean, I mean like, no, it doesn't like when she's really upset. Like what's wrong.
Alicia Noedel: Nothing.
Alicia Noedel: No matter how many times as
Alicia Noedel: He want to answer or she'll give me an answer like oh no one helps me clean but like that's not the root of what's bothering her. She doesn't know what to talk about, I think,
Gwenevere Abriel: So, and I
Alicia Noedel: Do
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's see if we can use just just radical acceptance really quick right now. This is the story about the garden. I took some notes.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, if you give me a second. And oh, you know, this is two biggest thing anyway. And, you know, if you don't get money back $70 worth and really just, this is just a bad investment your dog grow into it and
Gwenevere Abriel: Basically
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the story. Then there's you
Gwenevere Abriel: The old coping, which is you try to figure out what you can do to fix it. You'll conform you'll do introspection, you want to use this this coke communication skill with her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Radical acceptance might look like what with this presentation of mom, what would radical acceptance, what would it be in your head. How would you know you were doing it right. As soon as you heard her say I'm trying to get there as fast as I can.
Alicia Noedel: And I would just think, you know, I'm not even gonna engage in this because it's not going to lead to anything that's healthy for you there was
Alicia Noedel: I'm not. So that's how I thought about it when it came down to it, I was like, You know what, I'm not even gonna
Alicia Noedel: Start. I'm just gonna leave because that was the best option.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a solution. Absolutely. So
Alicia Noedel: Even when we were leaving, when
Alicia Noedel: When I was driving away it about Santa Fe, we were going to send a it's about 60 Miles FOR ABOUT IT THAT TAKES ABOUT 3540 minutes I'm
Alicia Noedel: Even when we were leaving, I was thinking in my head. You know the old me would have texted her and started
Alicia Noedel: A big old thing and made it her way bigger. And what's wrong with you why he's upset. I didn't do anything to you.
Alicia Noedel: And, you know, even there was a little piece of me that he thought, you know, should I text her and be like without and I remembered you know that, how many times has that worked for me.
Alicia Noedel: When is that ever brought in on the kind of outcome that I wanted or needed
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'm saying
Gwenevere Abriel: Radical acceptance. Now your solution. How that manifests in the universe is
Gwenevere Abriel: I put the phone down
Gwenevere Abriel: I was about to text or have the thought maybe I should text, what the heck. Mom, I didn't do nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Radical acceptance.
Gwenevere Abriel: My mom is doing the sweet the cold up the down. This is just how mom is
Gwenevere Abriel: That's acceptance.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not a wish to change her not a wish that something was different, letting go of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And holding on to you instead what it feels like to you in that moment, really going tenderly to us disappointing dog gone. It's hard to see. Hard to see it again that my mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is engaged in the psychological project if I get identification, where she right uses intellectual ization and she rationalization, and all these antics that she has honed over the years.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where she does not take responsibility.
Gwenevere Abriel: For her own emotions. She does not take responsibility for her word the
Alicia Noedel: Story that everyone else's
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, period. You say that again. Your mom engaged in rationalization justification.
Gwenevere Abriel: And blame.
Gwenevere Abriel: But she did it because she's coming
Uh huh.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It has nothing to do with you, not the same thing. Is it not affecting you. It's a
Gwenevere Abriel: Different translation or her behavior. It's a compassion. It sits here not sympathy. Now what's wrong. No, it's
Gwenevere Abriel: It's you stay in your own truth. This is just a pointing to see hot and cold and there she goes, it's hard to see my mom using those same skills right
Gwenevere Abriel: To avoid accountability. I don't like seeing it in her. I don't like seeing it in myself. It's hard to watch
Gwenevere Abriel: For mom poor mom, you can have compassion for that from a distance.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's healthy
Gwenevere Abriel: Disengagement it's healthy.
Gwenevere Abriel: You stay back just a little bit. You let her
Gwenevere Abriel: do her thing not demanding night. That's where this earlier conversation came up
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's where anger right anger demands change for me so that I don't have to feel blamed change, change, change on it, mom. She's not going to the radical acceptance is, this is my mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's labeled bipolar. Fine, we'll go with that label, but it's so much more. It's all of these
Gwenevere Abriel: Painful stories.
Gwenevere Abriel: But in the moment what radical acceptance is just
Gwenevere Abriel: There she goes again on it and then you come back, all it is. You don't continue to analyze it don't interpret it. You just summarize a quick little there that's that sweet cold bipolar. There it is gone. It
Gwenevere Abriel: For Mom That's all she knows what to do. She's doing her best. And then you come back. So now the oscillation. You come back to you. How am I feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, how do you take care of yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Around disappointment. That's the next step, you will not get it from her you know about a conversation, no amount of texting. This is the big assumption. This is the big change. This is the rewiring of the brain part right
Gwenevere Abriel: Here right there. What do I do to take care of me in my disappointment in this garden.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's going to do all this BS instead of just say
Gwenevere Abriel: I really thought this guy could help. I'm so sorry. And then the dog came out and ruins your garden. Oh, I feel so guilty. I'm so sorry, baby. I'm so sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wish she said
Alicia Noedel: And I wasn't sat with her. Either you know like I wasn't she was just annoyed with those situation there's, you know, I'd never showed any
Alicia Noedel: It wasn't provoked or anything. And that's how it is. And it's happened so many times that like I know how it's going to play out every time because I know how I mean I know myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: How do you cope with disappointment. So we all of this work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it's back to. So if we do this oscillation. If we say cuz she did most of it right, you just said.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi, mommy. He pushed, pushed a little bit with. Aren't you going to kiss the baby. He wanted her to do something else wanted her to be this mom that remembers on her own that can push past this guilt that she I wish you would actually feel
Alicia Noedel: Around the Garter. I think I also wanted her to make her feel better. You know, do I wanted to kind of get her mind off it, like, oh, you can you shoot the baby always makes her happy.
Alicia Noedel: You know, I didn't expect her to react like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: It didn't work, you're, you're, you're doing. What maybe would help you
Gwenevere Abriel: Focus on the things that's most important. It's not about a friggin garden. It's about relationships, she doesn't get that she doesn't get the rupture. That just happened like back to back to back to back to back, and she does not know how to repair it. I'm telling you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's acceptance.
Alicia Noedel: is unfortunate, too, because that's what's like really impressed with our relationship. That's one of the things that I've always you know she is, she is unable to communicate without getting upset and, you know, yelling. She can't do it. And it's just her
Alicia Noedel: And I just, you know, I need to accept that and I kind of have because they know better. Now, to just
Alicia Noedel: Not even
Alicia Noedel: My age.
Alicia Noedel: But I feel like that's unhealthy.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Who's going crazy you expecting her to change or your mom who is completely comfortable in her denial and you're
Gwenevere Abriel: The one that keep here kit. Don't you want to kiss the baby. No you rewind it far enough back if you have true acceptance.
Gwenevere Abriel: You would hold that child and your arms and enjoy her just stay there like this, I see you, Mom. Right. It's in your head. I see you don't Kennett How unfortunate she can't come here and enjoy this. Will you hold this little girl.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm deeply connected to this little girl right now and for fussing over some projection about a garden and just the silliness. Oh, Mom. I hope you have a good day. Mommy, and you just sit here and rock like this, see the difference. I'm taking care of myself. I'm staying connected to my daughter.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm watching my mom and it is sad because for a moment you oscillate you imagine how helpless. That would be to not know how to connect
Gwenevere Abriel: With daughter granddaughter to own right to sit with I'm sorry about the garden or any of the door. I mean, there's so many different things that she could have connected around in a
Meaningful
Gwenevere Abriel: Way, they're all missed opportunities, but you stay here with the baby.
Gwenevere Abriel: I said, What do you do Elisa when you are in the thought of that's unfortunate that my mom doesn't know how to repair that's unfortunate that my mom does not know how to take accountability that is inconvenient and disappointing.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that right there is for you to manage
Gwenevere Abriel: The days of going to mom are gone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Until they're not. And we'll look at that, when she changes and looks like a saved person come back in here and you tell me I'm seeing profound change. I wonder if she's seeing a therapist. She's
Gwenevere Abriel: Doing something different. She looks reliable and safe now when I want to trust and I'm going to open my boundaries, a little bit more but for now.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see the difference between
Gwenevere Abriel: Wanting putting baby like right you want to fix it. But total acceptance of what is to see your mother.
Gwenevere Abriel: And accepted and loved her anyway.
Gwenevere Abriel: And and you taking care of you. Just, just you don't push baby, you just
Gwenevere Abriel: Just this. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: See you later. If she remembers to come over and kiss, baby. That's fine. But guess who is enjoying her I'm holding her and
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you imagine
Gwenevere Abriel: And she didn't push that next piece.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it hard to believe that she might forget to kiss the Baby Goodbye.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: Because she you know she loves her so much.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not the same, but that was about you.
Alicia Noedel: Here, Kim that situation. I mean, you know, I think it was just me trying to fix it. Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: You know, she would have said by to the baby. Regardless, but you know, I wanted to, you know, change the conversation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: Make it something about happy. Yeah, that was me trying to fix it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And later on that, like, once you really get this this oscillation back and forth and back and forth. Once you really get that you
Gwenevere Abriel: Just needed to take care of you to stay connected to your daughter just holding her and feeling, feeling what it's like to stay connected to her while you're seeing your mom doing her thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you're taking taking care of yourself. You have nothing to prove you have nothing to demand. You just in the presence of someone who's not tuned in, but it doesn't prevent you from tuning into yourself and saying, Why am I disappointed. I'm seeing my mom do this tug on it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's hard to see.
Gwenevere Abriel: But then you come back you feel her. What if you had just brought your eyes down for a moment and looked at her and just stay here with her like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you imagine and stop trying to save that out here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like here, but you just did.
Gwenevere Abriel: That repair in here with her, you just love her and stay connected and almost, almost even started to forget.
Gwenevere Abriel: That rupture that happened with your mother. But indeed, it just went to what's important to you and that is staying connected with your daughter and feeling well. I know I'm not living this craziness. I'm here with her being congruent.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's being present.
Alicia Noedel: I just
Alicia Noedel: Wanna eat.
Alicia Noedel: I think that this is also, you know, helpful because usually, I don't think about changing the way i think i think about
Alicia Noedel: Running away from it. Yeah. So, you know, I literally just ended, as you know, well,
Alicia Noedel: I just want to have my own place. I don't live here anymore. And, you know, and I don't feel like that all the time.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, because I love being here. I love you know for now this is where I need to be
Alicia Noedel: But, you know, obviously, you know, I'm 22. I don't want to live with my, you know, my mother forever.
Alicia Noedel: I feel like I should have been, you know, I was on my own. When I was like 14 I was on my own and I, you know, came back after, you know, five years.
Alicia Noedel: But I
Alicia Noedel: I always try and run from it. I don't I just go, you know, I just really, I just need to. We just need move. I don't, I can't be here anymore and that's not how I need to deal with it.
Alicia Noedel: Because it's not going to help
Gwenevere Abriel: We, we need to start to bring today to a close, but let's take what you just said about the
Gwenevere Abriel: I need to run from it.
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't have to add more more skills to what you're already doing just take the ones you already have. There's seeing what you're seeing accepting what's right in front of you, my mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is coping she's dealing with her own demons or issues, whatever you are bipolar right there. And that's how it works its way, but I'm not going to interpret it, and therefore there's nothing to solve.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's just no I'm gonna take care of me.
Gwenevere Abriel: How, there's nothing to solve. Now, there's no argument. Now, there's no I have to leave now. There's just, you're going to see your monster around and there'll be a change, because you will not be
Gwenevere Abriel: Trying to demand suggest help. Nothing, it's just going to be her having to deal with herself.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let's see what happens. Let's see what happens with her. Maybe she'll come full circle. Maybe it'll escalate neutral cheap sort of provoking.
Gwenevere Abriel: And will you hold on to yourself, please stay there and your truth of who I don't really like that behavior. She's doing a three more. She just did five more of them.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm okay. I'm all right. I don't need her to change, she's behaving exactly as I predicted she's doing the best she can and i doing the best I can. And I'm here.
Gwenevere Abriel: staying in contact with my daughter.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it doesn't need to go any more complicated than that. It's just breathing. It's just tuning in to the self, how, how are you doing, how, you know, how am I doing
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel this. I'm anxious, I'm here, I'm here, I'm breathing for me connect with my daughter.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let me stop trying to change this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Acceptance.
Gwenevere Abriel: For you brief to an inward to how you doing, and take care of yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do what feels good. It feels good to hold your baby.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want your mom to feel it. What are you notice her
Gwenevere Abriel: You tune into her
Gwenevere Abriel: And guess what, then you're going to feel better. And although you didn't say exactly the emotion that you want to feel when your mom is doing her thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: We played with some words I threw some out there. See you investigate how you feel when you use those skills.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, see if there's less of that sad less of the irritability and see if there's other words that I threw out there or your own come up
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Anything else we
Gwenevere Abriel: Like I gotta run over and start a group
Gwenevere Abriel: 95 fruit. What do you know
Gwenevere Abriel: So are we still good for
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my gosh may 18
Gwenevere Abriel: an idiom.
Alicia Noedel: That sounds great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Excellent. And I'll get to see you in group.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. All right, I'll see you then.
Alicia Noedel: Have a great day everyone. Thank you.